# GitHub Pages Deployment Guide\n\nThis guide provides step-by-step instructions for deploying the Nikoloz Khutsishvili portfolio website to GitHub Pages for free hosting.\n\n## Prerequisites\n\nBefore starting, ensure you have:\n\n- A GitHub account (create one at https://github.com if needed)\n- Git installed on your computer\n- Node.js and pnpm installed\n- The portfolio project cloned or downloaded locally\n\n## Step 1: Create a GitHub Repository\n\n1. Log in to your GitHub account\n2. Click the \"+\" icon in the top right corner and select \"New repository\"\n3. Name the repository `nikoloz-portfolio` (or any name you prefer)\n4. Set the repository to **Public** (required for GitHub Pages free tier)\n5. Do NOT initialize with README, .gitignore, or license\n6. Click \"Create repository\"\n\n## Step 2: Initialize Git and Connect to GitHub\n\nIn your project directory, run these commands:\n\n```bash\n# Initialize git repository\ngit init\n\n# Add all files\ngit add .\n\n# Create initial commit\ngit commit -m \"Initial commit: Portfolio website\"\n\n# Add GitHub remote (replace USERNAME with your GitHub username)\ngit remote add origin https://github.com/USERNAME/nikoloz-portfolio.git\n\n# Rename branch to main (if needed)\ngit branch -M main\n\n# Push to GitHub\ngit push -u origin main\n```\n\n## Step 3: Configure Vite for GitHub Pages\n\nUpdate `vite.config.ts` to set the correct base path for GitHub Pages:\n\n```typescript\nimport { defineConfig } from 'vite'\nimport react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'\nimport path from 'path'\n\nexport default defineConfig({\n  base: '/nikoloz-portfolio/',  // Add this line with your repository name\n  plugins: [react()],\n  resolve: {\n    alias: {\n      '@': path.resolve(__dirname, './client/src'),\n    },\n  },\n})\n```\n\nIf your repository is named differently, replace `nikoloz-portfolio` with your actual repository name.\n\n## Step 4: Build the Project\n\nCreate an optimized production build:\n\n```bash\npnpm build\n```\n\nThis generates a `dist/` folder with your compiled website.\n\n## Step 5: Deploy to GitHub Pages\n\n### Option A: Manual Deployment (Simple)\n\n1. Create a new branch for deployment:\n   ```bash\n   git checkout --orphan gh-pages\n   ```\n\n2. Remove all files except dist:\n   ```bash\n   git rm -rf .\n   ```\n\n3. Copy dist contents to root:\n   ```bash\n   cp -r dist/public/* .\n   rm -rf dist\n   ```\n\n4. Commit and push:\n   ```bash\n   git add .\n   git commit -m \"Deploy to GitHub Pages\"\n   git push -u origin gh-pages\n   ```\n\n5. Return to main branch:\n   ```bash\n   git checkout main\n   ```\n\n### Option B: Automated Deployment with GitHub Actions (Recommended)\n\nCreate `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` in your project root:\n\n```yaml\nname: Deploy to GitHub Pages\n\non:\n  push:\n    branches: [main]\n  pull_request:\n    branches: [main]\n\njobs:\n  build-and-deploy:\n    runs-on: ubuntu-latest\n    permissions:\n      contents: write\n\n    steps:\n      - name: Checkout code\n        uses: actions/checkout@v4\n\n      - name: Setup Node.js\n        uses: actions/setup-node@v4\n        with:\n          node-version: '18'\n          cache: 'pnpm'\n\n      - name: Install pnpm\n        uses: pnpm/action-setup@v2\n        with:\n          version: 10\n\n      - name: Install dependencies\n        run: pnpm install\n\n      - name: Build project\n        run: pnpm build\n\n      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages\n        uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v3\n        with:\n          github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}\n          publish_dir: ./dist/public\n          cname: nikoloz.dev  # Optional: add your custom domain here\n```\n\nThis workflow automatically builds and deploys your portfolio whenever you push to the main branch.\n\n## Step 6: Enable GitHub Pages\n\n1. Go to your repository on GitHub\n2. Click \"Settings\" (gear icon)\n3. In the left sidebar, click \"Pages\"\n4. Under \"Build and deployment\":\n   - Source: Select \"Deploy from a branch\"\n   - Branch: Select `gh-pages`\n   - Folder: Select `/ (root)`\n5. Click \"Save\"\n6. Wait 1-2 minutes for GitHub to build and deploy your site\n\n## Step 7: Access Your Portfolio\n\nYour portfolio will be available at:\n\n```\nhttps://USERNAME.github.io/nikoloz-portfolio/\n```\n\nReplace `USERNAME` with your GitHub username and `nikoloz-portfolio` with your repository name if different.\n\n## Custom Domain (Optional)\n\nTo use a custom domain:\n\n1. Purchase a domain from a registrar (GoDaddy, Namecheap, etc.)\n2. In your GitHub repository Settings → Pages:\n   - Enter your domain in \"Custom domain\" field\n   - Check \"Enforce HTTPS\"\n3. Update your domain's DNS records to point to GitHub Pages:\n   - Add A records pointing to GitHub's IP addresses:\n     - 185.199.108.153\n     - 185.199.109.153\n     - 185.199.110.153\n     - 185.199.111.153\n   - Or add CNAME record pointing to `USERNAME.github.io`\n4. Wait 24 hours for DNS propagation\n\n## Updating Your Portfolio\n\nAfter deployment, to update your portfolio:\n\n1. Make changes to your code\n2. Commit and push to main branch:\n   ```bash\n   git add .\n   git commit -m \"Update portfolio content\"\n   git push\n   ```\n3. If using GitHub Actions, deployment happens automatically\n4. If using manual deployment, rebuild and push to gh-pages branch\n\n## Troubleshooting\n\n### Site shows 404 error\n\n- Verify repository is public\n- Check that GitHub Pages is enabled in Settings → Pages\n- Ensure `base` path in `vite.config.ts` matches your repository name\n- Clear browser cache and try again\n\n### Styles not loading\n\n- Check that `base` path in `vite.config.ts` is correct\n- Rebuild the project: `pnpm build`\n- Check browser console for 404 errors on CSS/JS files\n\n### Images not showing\n\n- Ensure image URLs use the correct base path\n- Use relative paths for images in the dist folder\n- Check that images are in the dist/public folder after build\n\n### GitHub Actions workflow not running\n\n- Verify `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` is in the correct location\n- Check that the file has correct YAML syntax\n- Go to Actions tab to see workflow logs\n- Ensure repository has write permissions enabled\n\n### Custom domain not working\n\n- Wait 24-48 hours for DNS propagation\n- Verify DNS records are correctly configured\n- Check that CNAME file is created in gh-pages branch\n- Test DNS resolution: `nslookup yourdomain.com`\n\n## Performance Tips\n\n- GitHub Pages serves files with caching headers, so updates may take a few minutes to appear\n- Use a CDN for large images and assets\n- Minify and optimize all assets before deployment\n- Consider using GitHub Pages with a custom domain for better branding\n\n## Security Considerations\n\n- Always use HTTPS (enabled by default on GitHub Pages)\n- Keep your repository private if it contains sensitive information\n- Use environment variables for API keys (not applicable for static sites)\n- Regularly update dependencies: `pnpm update`\n\n## Next Steps\n\nAfter successful deployment:\n\n1. Share your portfolio URL on social media and professional networks\n2. Add your portfolio link to your GitHub profile\n3. Include the URL in your resume and cover letters\n4. Regularly update your portfolio with new projects and achievements\n5. Monitor analytics to see how visitors interact with your portfolio\n\n## Additional Resources\n\n- GitHub Pages Documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/pages\n- Vite Deployment Guide: https://vitejs.dev/guide/static-deploy.html\n- GitHub Actions Documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/actions\n\n---\n\n**Congratulations! Your portfolio is now live on the internet!**\n
